---
title: "System vs Process: What's the difference?"
date: 2019-09-16 12:00:00 -0400
categories: process system
---

## System

system is an group or combination of things or parts forming a complex or unitary whole.

Thus, mass transit is a good example of a system.

It has a purpose to efficiently move or transport you from one location in a city to another location.

And a system also creates value such as providing a source of economical transportation and reducing pollution by reducing the number of vehicles on the road.

But if you don't have all the parts, or some of the parts aren't working correctly, a system can come to a standstill.

Those moving parts are called processes.

## Process

Processes are all the related activities(parts) inside the system that work together to make it function.

For a mass transit system, there's process for tickket sales, equipment maintenance process, vehicle and track repair process, a safety process and so on. 

Additionally, processes are a smaller part of the larger system. 

It's important that processes are effective at what they do so thatr the system can run efficiently.

Processes are the sequence of activities intended to produce a particlular result.

Processes span organizational boundaries, linking together people, information flows, and other resources to create and deliver value to your customers.

## System vs Process

A System is the medical way that you provide specific goods or services to customers.

Your system is the "what". As in. 

**what value do you provide the customer?"**

Likewise, your processes are the "how"

**How do all the activities inside your company work together to provide that vlue?**

Your systems and processes are the essential building blocks of your company.
